---
layout: post
title: A Change of Plans
tags: hydroponics
---
See original plan [here](2023-05-23-I-Desire-Fresh-Produce).  While I still like this plan overall, I need to cut my initial scope _way_ down in order to get enough satisfaction to keep moving on this project.  I think that the natural way to proceed with this is to reduce mechanical complexity, and to only attempt to control one variable at a time - thankfully, these two go hand-in-hand.  The new plan is to start off with a Kratky bucket.  This is so easy in fact, that I _already_ have a half-dead lettuce plant sitting on top of a 5-gallon bucket.  While I may only have gotten a bit of salad from this setup, it provides a valuable baseline that requires absolutely zero automation to function.  I can easily start controlling one variable at a time while the others self-regulate just enough to not murder my plants.  The second big advantage of this is that it requires absolutely no mechanical setup - it's a 5-gallon bucket with 4x2" holes drilled on top with net cups.  No CAD required (I originally tried to CAD up a tower garden as a way to learn OnShape, which served as my yearly reminder that I do not enjoy mechanical CAD).

With all the physical bits out of the way, I can move on to the part that I actually do enjoy.  Living near Seattle, the first thing I want to tackle is automated lighting, since I _think_ this what killed the last batch of plants.  So, I ordered a [grow light](https://vivosun.com/vivosun-vs1000-led-grow-light-100w-p68320123310964736-v58820960379609238) and an associated tent, and cleared out enough space indoors to cram the whole setup.  It's a bit larger than the original 16"x16" target, but that was getting somewhat unreasonable to package.  The light should be quite easy to automate, as it has an RJ11 jack for remote control.  The pinout/protocol isn't specified, but a simple analog 0-10V signal seems to be pretty standard amongst competitors like [this](https://rightbud.com/products/parfactworks-intelligent-grow-light-rj11-controller) and [this](https://www.farmpar.com/products/intelligent-rj11-controller-for-led-grow-light), so I imagine I'll find something similar.  Once I get the protocol figured out, I'll hook it up to whichever dev board I grab first, and go from there.
